---
layout: about
title: about
permalink: /
subtitle: Computer Science Department, Tufts University.

[comment]: # description: <a href="#">Affiliations</a>. Address. Contacts. Moto. Etc.


profile:
  align: right
  image: raja_cropped.jpg
  image_circular: false # crops the image to make it circular
  more_info: >
    <p>Joyce Cummings Center 453</p>
    <p>177 College Ave</p>
    <p>Medford, MA 02155</p>

news: true # includes a list of news items
selected_papers: true # includes a list of papers marked as "selected={true}"
social: true # includes social icons at the bottom of the page
---

I am the Ankur & Mari Sahu Assistant Professor in the [Computer
Science Department](https://www.cs.tufts.edu) at [Tufts
University](https://www.tufts.edu).  I mentor an incredible group of
students at the [D.O.C.C. Lab](https://docclab.cs.tufts.edu).  We
generally focus on systems.  Recently, we have been especially
interested in observability techniques for cloud-based distributed systems.

From November of 2016 to July of 2019, I was a Red Hat Visiting
Research Scientist at [Boston University](https://www.bu.edu).  I
worked on the [Mass Open Cloud](https://massopen.cloud/) project with
[Orran Krieger](https://okrieg.github.io/), focusing on architectures
for building vendor-neutral clouds and creating problem diagnosis
tools for them.  From May of 2013 to October of 2016, I was a
postdoctoral researcher at [Carnegie Mellon University
(CMU)](https://www.cs.cmu.edu).  I worked on the
[XIA](http://www.cs.cmu.edu/~xia/) project with [Peter
Steenkiste](https://www.cs.cmu.edu/~prs/), focusing on evolvability
for inter-domain routing protocols.  Our
[SIGCOMM](/assets/pdf/sambasivan2017jb_paper.pdf) paper showed that
two simple mechanisms implemented within existing routing protocols
would allow them to facilitate incremental deployment of future
inter-domain routing protocols.  These features would provide
incentives for both early adopters of new protocols as well as avoid
disincentives for parties uninterested in them.

I completed my Ph.D. at [Carnegie Mellon](https://www.ece.cmu.edu) in
May 2013 and was advised by [Greg
Ganger](https://www.ece.cmu.edu/~ganger).  My dissertation,
"[Diagnosing performance changes in distributed systems by comparing
request flows](/assets/pdf/sambasivan2013uz_dissertation.pdf)",
focused on creating methods to diagnose performance problems in the
distributed systems society relies on for their everyday tasks.
Today, these methods are commonly used in industry under the moniker
"distributed tracing."  The resulting papers
([HotAC](/assets/pdf/sambasivan2007uh_paper.pdf),
[NSDI](/assets/pdf/sambasivan2011vw_paper.pdf),
[InfoVis](/assets/pdf/sambasivan2013gn_paper.pdf),
[SoCC](/assets/pdf/sambasivan2016bo_paper.pdf)) influenced these
industrial efforts.

In my spare time, I enjoy playing tennis, taking long walks, and
exploring New England.  I am "famous" for appearing in a
[PhDComics](https://www.phdcomics.com/comics/archive.php?comicid=824)
strip. In the strip, I ask CS PhD students to wear lab coats to work
so that folks will know that we are researchers too :blush:.  Don't
forget to pop on a pair of lab goggles when debugging!


## research opportunities

**Prospective PhDs**: I recruit one to two PhD students per year to
work on projects broadly related to systems and networking.  I look
for students who are curious, have strong technical skills,
communicate well, and like exploring (slightly) crazy ideas.  If you
are interested, please [apply to Tufts
CS](https://gradase.admissions.tufts.edu/apply/) and send me an email.
The application deadline is usually September 15th for Spring
admission and December 15th for Fall admission.

**Tufts undergrads & Master's students**: My lab hosts a few
undergrads & Master's students every year.  If you are interested,
send me an email.  It helps if you have already taken or are planning
to take Cloud Computing ([CS 118](https://www.cs.tufts.edu/cs/118)),
Networking ([CS 112](https://www.cs.tufts.edu/cs/112)), or Operating
Systems ([CS 111](https://www.cs.tufts.edu/cs/111)).

## scheduling meetings

Separately from class office hours, I am available for 15-minute
meetings with Tufts undergrads and Master's students between 5 pm and
6 pm on Fridays.  You may book meeting slot up to two weeks in advance.
Please use this
[link](https://fantastical.app/rajasambasivan/raja-free-weekly-meeting-slots)
to schedule a meeting.





